Soc.107 (#254)
resource-watch/data-pre-processing: soc_107_rw0_population/README.md

## Population (Grid, 100m) Dataset Pre-processing
This file describes the data pre-processing that was done to [Population Count - Constrained Individual Countries](https://www.worldpop.org/geodata/listing?id=78) for [display on Resource Watch](https://resourcewatch.org/data/explore/d6e42176-90c4-429d-8cae-7619c545a458).

The source provided the data as a [Google Earth Engine image collection](https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/datasets/catalog/WorldPop_GP_100m_pop). The images in the image collection were mosaiced together for display on Resource Watch using the following code.

```javascript

> // Purpose: Mosaic an image collection of tif files and export them to an asset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Purpose: Mosaic all images within an image collection and export it to an asset
```

// Mosaic an image collection

> //Load in a batch of image collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//Load in an image collection
```

var ic = ee.ImageCollection('WorldPop/GP/100m/pop');

> //Mosaic image collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//Mosaic all images in the image collection to a single image
```

var mosaic = ic.mosaic();

> //Get projection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//Get the projection info of the image collection
```

var projection = ic.first().projection();
var crs = projection.getInfo().crs;
var transform = projection.getInfo().transform;

//Save global bounds!
var rect = [-180, -89.9, 180, 89.9];
var bounds = ee.Geometry.Rectangle(rect,null,false);

> //Export mosaiced image to an asset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//Export mosaicked image to an asset with the projection and boundaries obtained in the previous steps
```

## Population (Grid, 100m) Dataset Pre-processing
This file describes the data pre-processing that was done to [Population Count - Constrained Individual Countries](https://www.worldpop.org/geodata/listing?id=78) for [display on Resource Watch](https://resourcewatch.org/data/explore/d6e42176-90c4-429d-8cae-7619c545a458).

The source provided the data as a [Google Earth Engine image collection](https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/datasets/catalog/WorldPop_GP_100m_pop). The images in the image collection were mosaiced together for display on Resource Watch using the following code.

```javascript

> // Purpose: Mosaic all images for all years within an image collection and export it to an asset
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Purpose: Mosaic all images for all years within an image collection and export it to an asset
with each year of data as a band
```

//Load in an image collection
var worldpop = ee.ImageCollection('WorldPop/GP/100m/pop');

// Save the dates of the time series
var yearStart = 2000;
var yearEnd = 2020;

// Filter images for the year 2000 and mosaic all the images for the year to a single image. This image will serve as the base band for the compiled set of images. 
var yearStack = worldpop.filterMetadata('year','equals',yearStart)
                .mosaic()
                .rename('Y'+ [yearStart.toString()]);

// For each year in the time series, filter the data to that year, mosaic all the images to a single image, and add the mosaicked image as a band to the compiled image.
for (var i = yearStart; i <= yearEnd; i++) {
    var yearCollection = worldpop.filterMetadata('year', 'equals', i);
    var yearImage = yearCollection.mosaic().rename('Y'+ [i.toString()]);
    yearStack = yearStack.addBands(yearImage, null, true);
}

//Save the boundaries.
var rect = [-180, -60, 180, 89.9];

> var bounds = ee.Geometry.Rectangle(rect,null,false);

Reviewer: Where does this boundary come from?
